Eben Uys: There we go.
Eben Uys: Okay. So
Eben Uys: first things. First, let's do an emotional check in
Eben Uys: on a scale of one to 10, one
Eben Uys: closer to negative emotions. So anger, frustration. You know.
Eben Uys: if I was sitting next to you currently, you probably would have slapped me, or at least tell me where to go
Eben Uys: in very, very strong language, or 10
Eben Uys: positive
Eben Uys: emotions like excitement.
Eben Uys: feeling good about what you saw.
Eben Uys: Use the chat. Give me a number.
Eben Uys: I'm not gonna talk to Sonya in this one there.
Eben Uys: Okay, so we have a lot of middle.
Eben Uys: We have a lot of people on the middle side of things, couple of threes and fours. Okay, so
Eben Uys: GCI gotta avoid GC as well on this one, I think, yeah.
Eben Uys: Okay. said again.
Eben Uys: the purpose of the fire drills is
Eben Uys: give you a time box activity to sort of taste some of your skills. Are you gonna get it right?
Eben Uys: Maybe. But they are really hard
Eben Uys: at the time pressure.
Eben Uys: And a lot of the sequel just sort of falls out of your age, right? So they are challenging.
Eben Uys: But
Eben Uys: that's what we're gonna chat through
Eben Uys: in the next half an hour. I'm sort of gonna give you place to share what was really challenging for you.
Eben Uys: We'll chat about the actual deliverable a bit later, because I do want you to submit something, but it shouldn't take
Eben Uys: a lot of your time. But you'll have time tomorrow to, you know. Did it get an hour or a hour or 2 on it? Okay, so
Eben Uys: what? What were some of the main things that you were struggling with ends up.
Eben Uys: Chat to me. What were some of the challenges on this one? Ace, Alex.
Alex Kononov: I had several challenges first of them was just the emotional stress of preparing something that
Alex Kononov: should be okay to look at
Alex Kononov: within the given time frame the second thing was the conversion to percents. because I've made a stupid mistake. I have, multiplied by 100 to to receive the percent in
Alex Kononov: my sequel query, and then I have done the same thing by converting it so to present in excel, to visualize. So I have achieved the unheard of levels of conversion.
Alex Kononov: Yeah, unfortunately, they were not real, but just the need of presenting something in a visually agreeable way. For me. It wasn't
Alex Kononov: great challenge.
Eben Uys: Yes, I think I had a glimpse at yours. It's something in a 76% conversion or something, right? We're always converting everyone. It's coming to our website.  again.
Eben Uys: I am hoping in the workplace that you won't walk into something like this straight off the bat because you don't have a lot of familiarity with the data yet.
Eben Uys: but you can learn something about yourself in terms of in in a business
Eben Uys: context, they are gonna be urgent, short, timeframed requests. And if you're typically a person that really and
Eben Uys: it happened to me in business as well, where you know, sort of the anxiety and stress. Get to you.
Eben Uys: Ask your manager
Eben Uys: to for some help and some
Eben Uys:  you know it's assistance from the rest of the team until you get more comfortable in managing some of those situations. Some people might get to a point where they they really need a lot of
Eben Uys: just support. And you, you know you can deliver good work as long as you have enough time. So that's that's something that you need to learn
Eben Uys: and take from the course as well that if you don't perform that well under time pressure. that is something you can get better at. But some people might never get to a point where they 100% comfortable with it.
Eben Uys: I'll use this an example of. I read a book around. They were interviewing a lot of pilots, commercial airline pilots
Eben Uys: and scenarios that went wrong. Where they've sort of lost an engine, or they had technical failure. and it's I can't remember where this was
Eben Uys: but pilots thrive
Eben Uys: for that day. I realized in reading it they're a different species, because I would be terrified losing one of my 2 engines. Midair
Eben Uys: like that's when they zone in. And they're like. This is what I've trained for. I have the ability to save the day, and it's truly they absolutely do their best work and their best thinking under that amount of pressure.
Eben Uys: That's never gonna be me
Eben Uys: sorry for everyone on the call plane is going down
Eben Uys: if we lose it, and I'm
Eben Uys: the captain of that flight. I'm just going to panic and say, sorry
Eben Uys: hopefully, as a parachute that I could take but definitely. there are some people that are better at managing under stress than others, and but it is a skill that you can cultivate over time to get better at it as well.
Eben Uys: Jack, you add your hand up before Rob, so I'm coming to you next, and they will get to Rob.
Jack C: Hey? I I like got to a point, and II don't even know if it's possible. I feel like in big query. I created like a table which had like
Jack C: who the event outcomes.
Jack C: And then I had like a list that was just of the dates that were in 2021, for like if I could like, put that list
Jack C: that table I'd met into how be I? I would have maybe been able to get something. But I just I don't know if that's possible.
And
Jack C: but that's why I was like II thought I'd be able to do this easier if it was in power Bi, and like to start playing around with some of the tables.
Eben Uys: Yeah.
Jack C: really stupid or or smart.
Eben Uys: No, Jack, that's a great insight, because it is
Eben Uys: what is the tool for this job
Eben Uys: I would have probably state in power Bi. Quick and dirty stuff.
Eben Uys: I would have probably state as much as possible in sequel or in bigquery. the last financing of a results and maybe creating a chart or 2, I would have probably done in excel. But it's just because that is skills that I'm very, very comfortable with, and I can quickly do.
Eben Uys: I've seen previous cowboys that try to attempt this whole exercise in power Bi.
Eben Uys: and
Eben Uys: it can be done. But there's a lot to take into consideration. Yeah, first of all. if you're taking the whole exercise to power bi
Eben Uys: and I'm not saying you've done this, Jack. It's just a general discussion point.
Eben Uys: But if you look at the size of the sessions and the final living stables, they are the 2 biggest tables that prism has in that data warehouse.
Eben Uys: So if you work with tables of that magnitude, you want your biggest processing power
Eben Uys: to
Eben Uys: be used on those tables, right? And that is currently keeping it on Google Cloud to do aggregation and stuff there. This there is a way that you can take it to power Bi. But all of a sudden power bi is on your local machine.
Eben Uys: which means that that processing happens on your local machine. And I've seen a lot of the previous cowards get very frustrated because they say it just keeps on running, and it's not doing anything right.
Eben Uys: So there's definitely
Eben Uys: there's a tool for the job.
Eben Uys: and some of it might be better than others. It also comes down to your own skill. Set, Jack, I would say, if you've done a lot of stuff in of the big aggregations like
Eben Uys: amount of sessions to day of the week or weekday week, and and you sort of had a lot of those big aggregations happening in Google cloud throttle big query
Eben Uys: and then use the power bi for more of this, some calculations and visualization.
Eben Uys: That would have been
Eben Uys: a really good approach. But you can get stuck if you try and do on this specific exercise to to much in power. Bi but we'll get back to that a bit later. It's a good point, Rob.
robmadigan: Even. So yeah, again, I think the timeline was definitely the tricky part for me. So I was trying to like
robmadigan: familiar filler, familiarize myself with the different tables and the different items in it. And, for example, like I,
robmadigan: I should have asked the question to be honest, but II just figured out like I just thought like, Oh, add to cart must mean purchase. Well.
robmadigan: there's no guarantee that even is a purchase. So I just thought but that was what I decided to base my so query on.
robmadigan: I was like, Oh, okay, well.
robmadigan: yeah, mightn't be the case. But yeah.
robmadigan: cause once you're so queries like, once you have your your your data taken from the big query and put it into power. Voi! That's what you're working with. You can't manipulate it really beyond that. So and then I didn't really have much time been in power via to kind of like, figure out how to make this pretty and stuff like. So it's definitely the time element.
robmadigan: It has a good challenge on the same sports.
Eben Uys: Yeah.
Eben Uys: who?
Eben Uys: So in terms of the the approach that people have used it, the majority of you
Eben Uys: stay in big query, or did some people go to power? Bi? What was sort of the
Eben Uys: the approach in terms of it's gc.
GC Storino: I started from Bigquery just to grab the data that I needed slapped into excel, did some
GC Storino: aggregation functions onto it just to.
GC Storino: I think it was just averages and stuff like that, and then put it into power Bi, and just put a bunch of cards up just to make it easier. I probably feel like I've just done the entire like
GC Storino: thought process wrong continued looking at like Robson.
GC Storino: other people's stuff. But that's basically what I did.
Eben Uys: I was about to ask you, why do you have minus 273.0015
GC Storino: that that was your your emotional take in yet that was the joke.
Eben Uys: Okay. So in terms of
Eben Uys: the approach else, Thomas?
Thomas Woo: I'm a big fan of to prepare the data in the funds be before feeding into whatever office for visualization. Yeah, because it's I think, yeah. First of all, it is more
Thomas Woo: easy to do
Thomas Woo: the coression whatever. Yeah, I think it will make a lot of mistake for this exercise, and working on sequel only would be much more easier for me to to to make a change whenever necessary.
Thomas Woo: The second thing would be that II just wonder if II use the I'm not so sure but I use visualization tools like how. Vi. Whatever to look into the complication of the data to do some aggregation. I'm not so sure if it is. Get we've got a it's any performance
Thomas Woo: impact that are local. Use a lot of time to extract the data. Yeah. So so this is my approach. Yeah.
Thomas Woo: I'll show it's right on one. But I I'm a big fan of to get all those data in
Thomas Woo: in advance. Put our table of view, whatever. Yeah. And and then just pick whatever cherry pick. What if I want from from those views? Yeah, this is
Thomas Woo: what I am going to do. But I think lots of time. II still figure out all those sequel query and still not yet get to the end of the result. But yeah, I am. I think II my approach would be more strategically
Thomas Woo: and also more in terms of modularity would be easier for me. Yeah, okay.
Eben Uys: okay. thanks.
Eben Uys:  So? Yeah, Florine.
Florine: Yeah. Sorry. Just one last thing. Yeah. I just wasn't sure whether I could get the weekday
Florine: or weekend day in sequel itself, or if I had to get it from power Bi. So
Thomas Woo: that's why I was gonna go into power bi, even though I brought up wants to make the visual in excel. But II wasn't sure how to extract weekday or weekend.
Florine: Yeah, I asked jet Gbt. But then I tried to put it in, and it didn't didn't work. So yeah, not sure. But yeah, if if anyone does know how to do it and wants to let me know, that would be great.
Eben Uys: Yes, that's that's a really really good shout, Lauren. It's I'll go. And yes, what Thomas has put there. There is a way. But there's there's actually a website.
Eben Uys: And it's 1 one of Google's pages
Eben Uys: where dates you can convert to a lot of things like quotes
Eben Uys: off Year day of week week of the year. and they are functions within bigquery, that if you have a date field
Eben Uys: you can easily act upon it to extract weekday or
Eben Uys: whatever you want. But that is one of the little curve pools in this exercise is actually, if you're in SQL, how do you actually extract the right level
Eben Uys: which in this case was either week, the day of the week, or it could be weekend weekday, depending on how you would not work to approach the question
Eben Uys: I would say in, I don't know this. This functions off the top of my it. I always go and Google them, because Microsoft sequel server is different to big query as well, and I sometimes know the big query one. Sometimes I know the Microsoft Sequel Server one, and sometimes I get them mixed up.
Eben Uys: But knowing that they are functions that help you to convert to the right level of aggregation is quite useful, and that's that's a really good shout. That that is one of the little curve pools in this one
Eben Uys: you'll see just
Eben Uys: up in the chat I've put a little, and I've put it on slack as well. So in terms of that conversion funnel. So
Eben Uys: if we just talk about
Eben Uys: tactically or practically what you could have done in this exercise.
Eben Uys: So for that funnel at the top
Eben Uys: start on number of sessions which you could get from the sessions table right?
Eben Uys: And
Eben Uys: there's a little quirk in the sessions table that you'll learn about later.
Eben Uys:  but just to give you it's up. You'll see in my
Eben Uys: when I give you the queries later. I do a unique count of session Id. However, there are sessions that can span multiple days. So the sessions table is actually unique on a date session id level and not just on the session. Id level.
Eben Uys: It's one of those annoying things about Google analytics. If you start a session
Eben Uys: quarter to 12 at night, and you continue browsing into the next day. Duplicated over birthdays. That's neither.
Eben Uys: But
something to consider during apply, and we'll cut back to that.
Eben Uys: and then at the bottom of the funnel, you want. Everyone else made a purchase. I sort of say to you, use the funnel events table. So if you think about that schematic that I've put there
Eben Uys: stations.
Eben Uys: who has viewed the product? Who's added the product to
Eben Uys: cart and who is checked out. Always made a purchase right? So you could potentially count
Eben Uys: the number of sessions that have late to a purchase where you didn't filter on purchase, and you'll see when I give you the 2 queries. The way that I've written. It is like
Eben Uys: a select statement with a group by on the sessions table.
Eben Uys: I take that result to excel. Then I do the same on the final events table. I take that to excel, and then I've used an excel. To divide the one by the other. One gives me number of visits, the other one gives me number of purchases, and that's how I calculate conversion right. There is a way to do it in one step with the join as well between the 2 tables. But then you do need to make sure that you don't not creating duplicates for the reason that I've just set because of its session. Id. I'll give you that query as well for you to to sort of
Eben Uys: Hughes. Okay?
Eben Uys: So I know not a lot of you got to the actual slide making side of things. But
Eben Uys: what do you think about the request. What? What is? Sort of? Again? How would you actually.
Eben Uys: if if you just have to think about creating a slide for this?
Eben Uys: Let's say you got the data, and you have the data conversion rate by weekday for 2021. What would you put on this slide? What do you think of good things, do sort of
Eben Uys: give and put on a slide for someone to take into a meeting
Eben Uys: again. Let's let's steer away from. We only had an hour. I know that's very little time, but let's say
Eben Uys: you could get to something reasonable within 2 or 3 h. What would you like to have on that slide.
do you think
Eben Uys: is Alex?
Alex Kononov: If I may set my place so for Jc, he's obviously stronger than me in this department, so I would clearly hear he's opinion before doing mine.
Eben Uys: Okay, jc, you're up.
GC Storino: Okay. I was.
thank you, Alex.
GC Storino: Probably a a clustered bar shot, divided by the individual days. But the days are weekdays are colored differently to the ones that are weekends.
Okay.
GC Storino: sort of I guess, like a a red and blueish, not red and blue,
GC Storino: red and or blue and orange, blue and orange. I work better
GC Storino: because of the contrast.
Eben Uys: Jason. Nice use of color to sort of say, Okay, this is my numbers for weekdays. This is my number for weekends.
Eben Uys: Alex, do you have anything to add to that
Alex Kononov: yes, I think. If we step back a bit from the tower part
Alex Kononov: what's I would like to put on my slides. Obviously.
Alex Kononov: things that I didn't do would be basically 3 small charts or more like 3 informations. One would be
Alex Kononov: the timeline by day of the conversion rate.
Alex Kononov: like Monday, etc. Monday, Tuesday with a line graph the second one would be a division 2 bar charts, or maybe a buy chart. Sorry for those who hate it. The division between the weekdays and weekends
Alex Kononov: and maybe the
Alex Kononov:  the timeline.
Alex Kononov: I would add a
Alex Kononov:  daily average daily minimum daily maximum.
Eben Uys: Yeah, I think those are all really good suggestions
Eben Uys: set. I think the thing that I would
Eben Uys: ask you to think about, and I'm still. I'll give you the 2 queries or the queries that I've used. Please. If you have an hour, don't spend all day tomorrow. You have other stuff to do tomorrow, but if you have like an hour tomorrow.
Eben Uys: take the data
Eben Uys: from the queries and think about how you would position if you had to create a one Slider. Now, things I would ask you to think about is.
Eben Uys: you could potentially. let's say, for example, the outcome is that, yeah.
Eben Uys: week weekends is lower conversion than weekdays.
Eben Uys: You could potentially anticipate what the stakeholder is. Gonna ask, right? They're probably gonna ask why?
Eben Uys: So that's the one thing is.
Eben Uys: is it that we're just getting, not not the same number of visits. And I'm just throwing out examples. This is for you to think about. I'm not giving you exactly how you should do it.
Eben Uys: But typically a stakeholder will ask why, they will either ask why? Or they will ask, is it increasing or decreasing? So you could potentially compare against 2020 data to see
Eben Uys: is weekends carrying increasing. Is it decreasing. or they would ask
Eben Uys: if within that category of weekends versus weekdays it's lower. They will ask why.
Eben Uys: what influences
Eben Uys: conversion? Right. And we saw in the the diagram
Eben Uys: visits and the Internet funnel. So visits could potentially, are we not getting the same number of visits over a weekend.
Eben Uys: Then on a weekday.
Eben Uys: if you had more time, and it was really a deep dive into this topic, you could go further. Right, and you could say
Eben Uys: is the same people browsing during the week.
Eben Uys: or they're browsing over weekend, but they're actually checking out
Eben Uys: and purchasing during the week. That's something.
Eben Uys: But
Eben Uys: remember, we sort of saying to you as to have impact as a data analyst, it's not about just providing data. It's about providing context.
Eben Uys: And it's anticipating what next? Questions could be asked by your stakeholders.
Eben Uys: The one thing that I would say in this exercise, which is fun to think about is.
Eben Uys: let's say
Eben Uys: the weekend comes to a conversion rate of
Eben Uys: 0 point 6%,
Eben Uys: and the weekdays are coming to a conversion rate of 0 point 6 1.
Eben Uys: What would you tell your stakeholder?
Eben Uys: Yes, Alex.
Alex Kononov: First of all, I would like to see the amounts of sales
Alex Kononov: that corresponds to that conversion, and upon the difference of amount. If there is any.
Alex Kononov: I would indicate that there is a difference between the weekday and weekend, but this difference is insignificant, and is equal to this amount of money on average.
Eben Uys: Hmm, that's quite nice quantifying what it actually means.
Eben Uys: Anyone have anything else I'd like to add.
Eben Uys: yeah, Blynn.
blens: I don't know. This is just. I guess it may not be the right answer. But do we think of how their correlator, like correlation, positive and negative?
blens: Maybe
blens: the people who are like visiting the website on weekends. If they're if it's related to
blens: the purchase, something like that. Yeah. like, what time is going there.
Eben Uys: You want to go a bit deeper, let let's say, for argument's sake, just it's 0 point 6 one and 0 point 6
Eben Uys: If we go with that I think there are 2 things that you can sort of have in the back of your mind. And I typically refer to them either as statistically significant or practically significant.
Eben Uys:  what Alex has mentioned
Eben Uys: by quantifying what that difference actually means in terms of real revenue, real sales could potentially be a way of saying this is practically a practical, significant thing that we should do or that we should investigate. Right. Let's say, for example, we we see using Alex's calculation
Eben Uys: that the revenue opportunity is something like 20,000 pounds.
Eben Uys: Immediately. You can then say we have all these other things that could potentially be making us hundreds of thousands of pounds.
Eben Uys: probably not as opportunity that we should look into now, or it could be in a place where you're on your business, where that's actually your next big opportunity. So that's that's a way of quantifying it. Practically significant.
Eben Uys: Statistical significance comes down to hypothesis testing right?
Eben Uys: So you can potentially test whether those 2
Eben Uys: populations or sample populations are different.
Eben Uys: using hypothesis testing  sometimes you might get a result that's not statistically significant. But if you actually quantify it back to revenue. Like, Alexis said.
Eben Uys: it becomes quite a big opportunity.
Eben Uys: If you think about what we're testing here
Eben Uys: stations. The in going into that hypothesis state is quite large.
Eben Uys: So even small differences might say, Oh, I'm statistically significant. However, if you're actually going, quantify.
Eben Uys: or my small differences it might not. But if you actually can't quantify, it might be, or vice versa. So those are things to think about.
Eben Uys: But in terms of next tips, what I want us to do is I'll post my queries again. If you have some time tomorrow, go and think about a slide, have a go at a slide.
Eben Uys:  I would actually like to see if I have an opportunity later in the week, where we can have another of an hour, and we discuss some of the slides. What's good of what's bad? What could be better? In terms of what is being given to me?
Eben Uys: So that that's sort of the next step. Any any questions, any comments on this one, anything that you feel we haven't discussed that we potentially should be discussing
Eben Uys: also have a go at the exercise again without a time pressure. It does help
Eben Uys: when there's not a looming dateline for it.
Eben Uys:  that does does really help.
Eben Uys: and then
Eben Uys: I'll even though I'm gonna give you the queries. Go and try it yourself first. Also see if you can sort of make sense of what needs to be done.
Eben Uys: Alright.
Eben Uys: With that I see some tired faces.
Eben Uys: I won't keep you any longer.
Eben Uys: thank everyone.
Eben Uys: and I hope you have a great evening. We'll chat again tomorrow. Hope you have a good one.
Florine: Bye. Goodbye.